=Love Story in the 1970s=
=Episode 7=
(Jiangcheng Educated Youth Office)
I was going to tell him about it
in the next few days.
That's great.
I knew it.
Jiangcheng No. 1
Textile Factory is a huge organization.
I'm sure you guys
are very responsible.
Let me thank you on the hero's behalf.
Don't mention it.
We're just doing our duty.
Alright.
Did you hear that?
I did.
Ms. Xu said yes herself.
As for you,
you should head back and wait patiently.
Thank you, Mr. Gao.
Feng, what's wrong?
You're so careless today.
Sorry, Ms. Xu.
I was careless.
Alright now. You may resume your work.
Mom.
Don't call me that in the office.
I want to request something from you.
I want to take Fei Ni home
for lunch this weekend.
Don't discuss
personal affairs in the office.
Is it a yes or a no?
Fine.
Take her home.
Really?
If I must say,
Ms. Xu, you do have great awareness.
You sorted out
your thoughts in an instant.
Mom, prepare some of
your signature dishes this weekend.
Fei Ni loves fish.
Remember that.
This shampoo does
make our hair smell great.
Ni, this is your first time
visiting their family.
You must be courteous.
Ni.
Wait.
Come here.
All done.
Here's your bag.
Ni,
take these tea leaves
and these cans
with you.
I think Ye Feng's mother will like them.
Dad, no need for that.
Just keep them for yourself.
It's fine. I'm fine with
drinking the crumbs.
I requested my friend to buy them.
It's your first time
visiting his family.
Yes.
I know we aren't
as well-off as they are.
But we can't just embarrass
ourselves, you know?
There's no need for this.
Mom...
It's fine. Just listen to me.
It's your first time
visiting their family.
We mustn't let them belittle us.
Precisely.
Am I right?
- Take them.
- Here.
Here.
Just listen to me, okay?
Alright.
I'll be going now.
Go now.
You guys should remain here.
Dear,
don't you think things
are progressing too quickly for Ni?
How is it quick?
You wanted to sleep with me
the second day you knew me, you know?
(Unite and Achieve Greater Victory!)
Fei Ni.
Let me help you out.
Be careful.
It's already good enough
that you're here.
No need to bring all these things.
When you go upstairs,
don't be nervous, okay?
You see,
although my mother might look strict
when she's in the factory,
she's completely different
when she's home.
Besides,
I'm here too.
Okay.
I'm not nervous at all.
Great.
Here are your keys.
Let's go.
Come.
Mom.
Fei Ni is here.
Why are you shouting?
You have no manners at all.
Go inside.
Fei Ni is here.
Hello, Ms. Xu.
Hello.
Mom,
Fei Ni bought these especially for you.
We have top-grade tea leaves,
canned yellow peaches
in malted milk syrup, and so on.
Leave them on the table.
Don't just stand there. Have a seat.
Here.
Have some water.
Thank you.
How is it?
My place is pretty okay, isn't it?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, Mom,
are the dishes ready?
Let's eat.
Wait a little longer.
Another guest is coming.
Another guest?
Isn't our guest already here?
Who's there?
Hi, Ms. Xu.
Ling!
Please come inside.
We were waiting for you.
Ms. Xu,
I've brought you two excellent
revolutionary novels.
Mom, this...
"Sparkling Red Star",
and "Song of Ideals", huh?
Just look!
All of her gifts serve
to nourish our spirits!
Unlike some individuals
who only buy food and stuff.
The trip is quite long.
You must be sweating.
Let me make you some tea.
Here.
Thank you, Ms. Xu.
Don't call me that when we're at home.
Call me Mrs. Ye.
Thank you, Mrs. Ye.
Ye Feng,
why are you still sitting there?
Head to the kitchen.
I was washing some lychees.
Hurry and bring them here.
Okay.
Fresh lychees are the best.
I'm allergic to lychees.
Wait, are people
actually allergic to lychees?
I'll pass it to them, then.
You guys can enjoy them.
Here.
Ling Yi.
This is a huge one.
Thank you, Mrs. Ye.
You're welcome.
Have some water.
Fei Ni.
I heard from Ye Feng
that you love fish.
Yeah.
I bought one especially for you.
Look.
Isn't my mom nice to you?
Please go and prepare it.
Mom,
that's inappropriate of you.
Coincidentally,
Ling Yi loves fish as well.
Why don't we have
braised fish for dinner?
Mrs. Ye, that's fine.
Okay.
We'll do braised fish, then.
Mom!
The kitchen is over there.
Okay.
Fei Ni, I'm truly sorry about this.
I didn't know that Ling Yi
would be coming.
My mom didn't tell me
about it beforehand.
But, think about it...
My mom is a sharp person.
You're a part of the family
while Ling Yi is a guest.
That's why she allowed you
to use our kitchen.
Doesn't that prove
that she has accepted you
as her daughter-in-law?
I'm fine.
I understand the situation.
I'm not mad either.
I'm glad to hear that.
Here,
let me help you.
Ye Feng, what are you doing?
Come and entertain our guest.
You should go.
After all,
Ling Yi is your guest.
Alright, I'll head there first.
I'll come back and help you later.
What's wrong?
Here,
have some fish.
Thank you, Mrs. Ye.
Here, Fei Ni.
Have some fish, too.
Don't stand on ceremony.
Just make yourself at home, okay?
Here, have some vegetables.
Ye Feng,
hurry and offer Ling Yi a toast.
She spent a lot of effort
just to write that article, you know?
Mom,
it was just a short article.
Even Fei Ni could
write something like that.
Fei Ni, what about this?
Write an article for us tomorrow.
Paste it on
the factory's bulletin board.
How could they be the same?
Only the best of the best
could enroll in college, you know?
Just look at her.
She gives off a different air.
I don't see
anything different about her.
Besides,
so what if she manages
to enroll in college?
It's more honorable
to be one of the working class.
Do you know how many people
are scrambling to get in?
That was because
she hadn't figured it out yet.
Serving one's husband
and educating one's children
are what a woman should do.
They try to enroll in college
in order to get a good job
so that they can get married
to a good husband, right?
Fei Ni, once you get married to me,
I'll buy you all the books
you want to read.
Why would she need to go to college
if she could have all this?
She wouldn't even attend it.
Am I right, Fei Ni?
Here. Have some vegetables.
In my opinion,
women should still enroll in colleges.
Undergraduates are cultured
and well-educated.
Mom,
didn't you tell me
that you would let
Fei Ni marry into our family
as long as she didn't attend college?
But why are you
praising undergraduates
nonstop right now?
The two of them are different.
How are they different?
I heard from Ms. Liu
that Fei Ni could play the piano.
Fei Ni,
although we don't have a piano here,
we have an accordion.
The one where you have
to pull it and play it vertically.
I think it's the same as a piano.
Not at all.
Mrs. Ye,
I know how to play the accordion.
Why don't I perform a song for you all?
Sure.
Ms. Xu,
I'm done.
You guys can enjoy your meal.
I suppose you won't be using
all the things I brought.
I'll take them with me as well.
Fei Ni?
She has no manners at all.
She finished the entire fish
by herself!
I don't know what
Ye Feng likes about her.
Fei Ni, why are you mad?
Fei Ni?
Ye Feng.
What if I say I won't let you
play basketball again?
Will you be happy with that?
Of course not.
Playing basketball is my career now.
It's a dream I had since I was a child.
Enrolling in college
is my dream as well.
Since you're not willing
to give up on your dream,
why should I give up on mine?
Fei Ni,
so what if you enroll in college?
Can you find someone
with a better background than me?
Right now, our priority
is to get into a relationship
and get married as soon as possible.
You should head back.
I can't just head back alone.
I can't face my mom.
What about this?
Apologize to my mom.
You won't be able to face your mom
if you bring me with you now.
It's obvious that your mom sees Ling Yi
as her future daughter-in-law.
Her attitude doesn't
represent mine, you know?
Fine.
Let me ask you this, then.
What if your mom disagrees
with our relationship?
I'll try to persuade her.
Ye Feng,
I think we need
to reconsider this.
Reconsider what?
We don't suit each other.
Fei Ni,
what makes you say that?
Don't be angry.
I can persuade my mom
to change her mind.
Fei Ni.
Fei Ni?
Don't worry!
Mom always listens to me!
(Inpatient)
Fei Ni.
You're finally here to visit me.
I'm here to deliver something to you.
Sorry about that,
Ye Feng.
Ms. Xu just told me
to join her for lunch.
I didn't know
that your girlfriend would be here.
Was she upset?
Why don't I
seek her out
and explain things on your behalf?
No need for that.
Fei Ni isn't that petty.
Besides,
she's upset because of my mom,
not you.
Since when did you
get together with Fei Ni?
Not that long ago.
We...
Comrade Ling Yi.
You see, my mom
loves to play matchmaker.
But I'm a man with my own convictions.
I have a girlfriend.
You should know
what I'm trying to get at here.
I understand.
Don't misunderstand me.
I just
admire you a little.
Admire me?
For what?
I admire you
for being a great basketball player.
You're right about that.
When it comes to basketball,
I'm one of the top players
in the municipal league.
What about this?
Just tell me beforehand
if you want to spectate the matches.
I'll reserve a good seat for you.
Sure.
Alright, I won't see you off, then.
Take care.
I'll head back first.
Okay.
She was picking on you.
Not entirely.
I understand her feelings.
To Ms. Xu,
I'm not good enough for Ye Feng.
Ye Feng is the one
who isn't good enough for you.
That's not the main point.
The main point is, I feel sorry for us.
Do you know something?
Last time, when Ye Feng visited us,
my parents went to borrow
some braised beef.
My dad is a glutton.
Even so, he didn't take a single bite.
He gave Ye Feng all of it.
When I was at Ye Feng's house,
I tried my best to devour the fish.
But fish isn't as expensive as beef.
I couldn't get my money's worth.
It would've been a major loss for us
had I not brought these back.
Remember to have them.
They're good stuff.
Okay.
By the way,
I have two pieces of good news for you.
Firstly,
I got myself a job.
Really?
Yeah. I'll be drawing comic strips
for a magazine firm.
I need to undergo
two months of training,
but I'll get subsidized
during that period.
That's great.
Two months aren't that long.
You have to do well in your training.
Do not slack off.
Alright. I won't slack off.
Just look at me. Before this,
I was seriously wounded.
Now, not only have I fully recovered,
but I also managed to find myself a job.
Therefore, certain things take time.
We'll find a way to resolve
our issues eventually.
It's the same for you.
You mustn't be impatient.
Never settle for less.
Go on more
blind dates before getting married.
You should go on
as many blind dates as you can.
After that,
compare all of the candidates. You'll...
If so, I don't think
I'll ever get married.
What's the second piece of good news?
Secondly,
the textile factory you're working at
agreed to give me a separate unit.
This is great.
That means you can settle down now.
When will you move there?
I think I still have
to wait for some time.
Until your factory
finishes assigning all the new dorms
and vacates the old ones
before it's my turn.
That's already good enough.
I was afraid that they might
go back on their word.
I suppose they still have a conscience.
Fei Ni,
once I get the unit,
you should come and stay.
That won't do.
How could I stay with you?
I mean, I'll let you stay there
for the time being.
You're in a rush to move out, right?
I'm a man. I can survive anywhere.
At most, I'll just sleep
in the magazine firm.
This won't do either.
That definitely won't do.
The unit is yours. You managed
to earn it by risking your life.
How could I monopolize it?
How are you monopolizing it?
I'm just going to let you
stay there for now.
At most,
I'll charge you some rent.
No.
Okay.
But I know.
You're just trying to help me out.
Thanks for that.
I'll be going now.
Okay.
I'll remember.
Remember to finish them.
Okay.
Remember, okay?
There's a good reason why ancient people
enjoyed climbing high places
to gaze into the distance.
When I stand here,
it feels like all of my worries
will melt away amidst the gorgeous view.
One of the most deceptive functions
of the human brain
is its knack for creating illusions.
But I usually describe it
as avoiding reality.
You sound like
a neurosurgeon now.
Sometimes,
avoiding reality isn't
necessarily a bad thing.
We should take
a break sometimes, you know?
I hear your research focus is on
computational mathematics.
Did you inquire about me
from Professor Wu?
Why not pure mathematics?
I've heard you've won the gold medal
in the Jiangcheng Math Competition
more than once.
You did inquire a lot about me, huh?
That's the most basic information
one can find out if we wish
to understand them.
My mom...
She said
plenty of people can handle
dull theoretical research.
What the country needs right now
is the development
of computational mathematics.
I should devote myself
to the most meaningful task.
Most importantly,
I like the subject.
I understand.
May I ask you a question?
What if I say no?
Will you stop asking me?
This question is very important to me.
Have you truly drawn the line
with your parents
and your family?
My father's last name is Fang.
My mother's last name is Mu.
That's how I got my name.
How can I draw a line with them?
My parents have made mistakes.
Even so, they've never let me down.
My younger brother didn't
draw a line with them.
Did that stop him from being a hero?
It's getting windy out here.
Let's head back first.
(Jiangcheng No. 1 Textile Factory)
Feng, don't give yourself
too much emotional burden.
Mr. Gao of
the Educated Youth Office called us
to discuss the issue with
Comrade Fang Muyang.
You heard it as well.
After the discussion our higher-ups had,
you were the only single person
on the organization's
new unit name list.
Therefore...
Ms. Xu.
Fang Muyang is a hero
who saved other people.
He deserved to have a unit
allocated to him.
No matter what,
I should give him the unit.
Feng,
I admire you for your intelligence,
your ability to pick up things fast,
and your awareness.
Keep up the good work.
You'll definitely become the backbone
of our factory in the future.
Thank you, Ms. Xu.
Good job.
Ms. Xu, I'll return to work first.
Alright, go ahead.
Ms. Xu.
There are certain things
that I don't know if I should tell you.
What is it?
Tell me.
Tell me about it.
Don't hesitate.
I'm just a little worried.
Will the hero, Fang Muyang,
have a negative impact on you
in the future?
What are you saying?
You see, there's something off
about his conduct.
Feng,
you mustn't spout such nonsense.
That's a heinous offense.
I didn't make this up.
Our comrades in the factory
all witnessed it themselves.
Fang Muyang
heads over to the factory
to find Fei Ni every other day.
But everyone knows
that Fei Ni and Ye Feng
are dating each other now.
And, just a few days ago,
I even saw Fang Muyang and Fei Ni alone
at the bottom of their unit.
They were so close.
Fei Ni even tied
Fang Muyang's shoelaces for him.
I would've thought
that they were a couple
had I not known any better.
Even so, that doesn't prove
that Comrade Fang Muyang's conduct
is problematic.
After all, he hasn't fully recovered
from his brain damage yet.
We cannot hold him
to the same standards
as ordinary people.
Indeed.
But you see,
he knew how to seek out
the Educated Youth Office
and Mr. Gao's help
to get him a unit even before
he had fully recovered.
If he's fully recovered,
he might do something worse.
Don't forget,
Fang Muyang deceived you
by pretending to be fully recovered.
Let's drop the fact
that there might be something
between Fei Ni and Fang Muyang.
But he places so much trust in Fei Ni.
I'm just worried
that if you allocate
the unit to him today,
he'll demand something else
in the future.
If so, we'll be at a disadvantage.
And, in the future,
if you want him to do something for you,
you and he won't be on the same page.
It's more than just about the unit.
But Ms. Xu,
I'm different.
I was personally promoted
and nurtured by you.
I'll definitely side with you.
And, most importantly,
once Fang Muyang
joins our dorm,
he'll be one of us.
He's the hero
whom you nurtured personally.
But in the future,
if he does something detrimental
under someone else's command,
your reputation is the one
that'll be affected.
Come.
Hurry! Block him!
Spread out!
Spread out the defensive baseline!
Don't leave anyone open!
Ask for the ball.
Pull the line outward.
Here, ask for the ball.
Breakthrough.
Are you saying
that you've allocated
my unit to someone else?
So now, I have no unit?
Comrade Fang Muyang,
it's not that I've allocated
your unit to someone else.
You just have to
wait for the next batch.
But you already promised me last time.
Why don't we discuss this
with Mr. Gao, then?
I did promise you before.
But according to our higher-ups,
since the name list for
the current batch has been confirmed,
we shouldn't alter it for no reason.
If not,
it can easily lead to other issues.
Other issues? What issues?
Whose instruction was this?
What kind of attitude is that?
Are you interrogating me now?
That's not it.
Ms. Xu,
you know that my brain
hasn't been functioning well
after
I was injured.
That's why I spoke without thinking.
You're a hero.
You're a role model.
You're someone everyone
should aspire to be.
What does a role model do?
A role model should
uphold their principles
and place the interests
of the people above all else.
For example, the unit allocation
for the current batch.
You should
meet the needs of ordinary workers
and carry forward
the spirit of Lei Feng.
What do you say?
If so, do you have a unit?
I do.
Why don't you uphold your principles
and follow the example of Lei Feng
by giving other people your unit, then?
Stop messing around here.
Our factory's unit allocation policy
prioritizes
married employees with families.
Nothing will change unless you give me
your wedding certificate
by tomorrow!
Fei Ni.
Are you still upset?
Ye Feng,
I've given it some thought.
We don't suit each other.
Just look at you.
I told you already.
My mom always listens to me.
Stop your nonsense, okay?
Ms. Xu isn't the main issue here.
Let me ask you something.
If we do get married,
and I still insist on enrolling
in college, will you support me?
Fei Ni, that's enough of you.
I already begged my mom
to give your brother a job.
I already argued
with my mom because of you.
I've rejected Ling Yi as well.
What else do you want?
What's going on over there?
Isn't that Fei Ni and the captain?
Are they having an argument?
Did I say something earlier
that gave you the wrong idea?
I've never requested you to get a job
for my brother.
I'm not good enough for you.
You can find someone better.
Since you know
you're not good enough for me,
don't you think you should
treat my mom and me better?
That day, you left my house
after throwing a tantrum.
I didn't say anything about it.
I even apologized to you.
But look at you.
Fei Ni,
don't you think
you should be more sensible?
That's precisely why
you should find someone
who's more sensible,
who's obedient to you,
and who your mom likes.
Clarify yourself.
Ye Feng, let go.
Clarify yourself!
Let go!
- Clarify yourself!
- Let go!
What are you doing here again?
Fang Muyang?
What are you doing here?
I'll tell you about it later.
Comrade Fang Muyang,
Fei Ni is my girlfriend.
You'll affect her reputation
if you keep finding her,
you know?
I don't.
Did you forget?
My brain is damaged.
Just now, I heard Fei Ni saying
that you two don't suit each other.
Did you forget about that too?
Come.
Fei Ni,
hop on.
How dare you?
If you dare to get on his bike,
I'll stop helping
your brother get a job.
Even if you wish to enroll in college,
you still need my mother's permission.
Get on my bike.
Fei Ni, you'd better not regret this!
What are you guys staring at?
- Why did you guys stop?
- Let's go.
Keep playing!
I'll send you home.
I don't feel like going home now.
(I'll stop helping
your brother to get a job.)
(Even if you wish to enroll in college,)
you still need my mother's permission.
(Undergraduates are cultured
and well-educated.)
(The two of them are different.)
He refused to come back
because he was afraid you might
have no place to stay after his return.
I promise.
I'll make him come back
and marry you in three months.
Don't be upset. I'll take you somewhere.
What's on your mind?
Actually,
I've never considered
marriage seriously.
In my opinion,
if I have to get married eventually,
it's better for me to get married now.
At least I can help resolve
the housing issue
for my brother and Lin Mei.
But after that, I realized I was wrong.
I thought getting married
was so much easier.
I thought I was already
mentally prepared.
But I realized
that I still couldn't accept
an unequal relationship.
Perhaps love
doesn't exist in my marriage.
However,
respect is a must.
You're right.
Why did you go to the factory today?
Xu Hongqi told me to come.
She told me
that the unit she promised
to allocate to me
was gone.
But why?
Because there's only
a limited number of units.
Xu Hongqi said
that they had to prioritize
married workers with a family.
But I won't give up.
If they don't allocate it to me today,
I'll head to
the Educated Youth Office tomorrow.
I'm going to bring
a reporter with me as well.
I'll interview her and ask her if it's
appropriate to let a hero like me
stay hospitalized all this while.
Fang Muyang,
why do you desire a unit that much?
You told me this yourself.
You said I shouldn't stay
in the hospital for too long.
If not, I'll fall sick for no reason.
I have a solution
to resolve your housing issue.
What is it?
Let's get married.
Don't panic.
It's fake.
I mean,
are you willing to stage
a fake marriage with me?
Let me tell you the situation.
Since Ms. Xu said
the units are only allocated to
married workers with a family,
if we get married,
that means she has no excuses
to not allocate any units to you.
Although
the marriage certificate is real,
the marriage is fake.
Do you understand?
I do.
But don't you think
this is too much of a sacrifice for you?
I have my own plans too.
You know my situation as well.
Therefore, when we get married,
you'll receive your unit.
And, half of the unit
should be mine.
Is that okay with you?
Yeah.
When should we register our marriage?
Have you
recovered your memory?
I remember you told me
that you liked me a lot.
You said that no one liked me
as much as you.
That's why I never forgot about it.
That's nonsense.
I never said that before.
If you don't like me,
why did you come to the hospital
to take care of me?
Those are two different matters.
I went to take care of you
because I wanted to enroll in college.
Don't make it
sound so trivial.
If so, when did you start liking me?
I've never liked you.
If so, why are you trying
to marry me?
It's because of the unit.
You need the unit too.
The unit will be split equally among us.
Why is that the case?
Your parents live together, right?
Because they love each other.
We're doing it to get a unit.
Can't we do both?
No.
If we get married,
I'll own half of it.
Okay.
Whatever you say.
There's one more important condition.
I won't stop you
from enrolling in college.
On the contrary,
I'll do my best to support you.
Thank you.
Why are you staring at me?
How would you know if you weren't
staring at me yourself?
I suppose this is how you stare
at the nurses usually, huh?
Are you upset?
No.
I did it because I had to draw them.
I had no choice but to observe them.
I think you were trying to draw them
because you wanted to observe them.
That's an interesting take.
This is just a reminder.
No matter if you're
drawing a portrait or so on,
if you keep staring at girls,
people will complain about your conduct.
You should be more careful.
Once we get married,
you'll be the only girl I draw.
That way, no matter how I draw you,
people won't complain about my conduct.
No need for that.
You can draw whoever you like.
It's none of my business.
Come on.
I'll send you home.
Hop on.
If the future cannot be grasped
You...
Did you wash your shirt again?
Did you scrub it on a washboard?
If you keep washing it like this,
this shirt of yours
will have a huge hole again,
just like your previous shirt.
If so, you should show me an example.
I'll learn it from you some other day.
Will receive the most
How did you wash your clothes when
you were in the countryside?
I don't remember.
Perhaps some other girls
washed them for me.
Stop bragging.
Anyway, I won't do your laundry.
I'll do yours, then.
No need.
You might ruin my clothes.
Who knows for sure?
How did your training go?
They said that I could draw comic strips
for the magazine firm
after I completed the training.
And, I'll get paid for it.
That's great.
What's great?
Everything's great.
Alright, you may stop here.
Regarding our fake marriage,
we must keep it from my parents.
They'll never agree to it.
It'll be troublesome
if the unit allocation gets delayed.
Let's acquire
our marriage certificate first.
They can't do anything about it
even if they find out.
But can we actually hide this from them?
We should do it first.
Take this bicycle with you tonight.
Go to the Educated Youth Office tomorrow
morning to get a letter of introduction.
I'll get one too.
Let's proceed with the procedure.
We'll be fine once we receive the unit.
Understood.
I wish to live with you
as soon as possible too.
No.
That's not what I mean.
I mean, I don't want any
additional trouble to crop up.
It'll be troublesome if Ms. Xu
goes back on her word again.
Understood.
Alright now. It's getting late.
You should head back now.
You should head back first.
I'll leave once you're inside.
I'm already an adult.
You should leave now.
Go now.
See you at the hospital
tomorrow morning.
Okay.
You're going to get married?
To whom?
After the laughter, I think of you
After the storm, I think of you
In the little courtyard,
there you are dancing
That earnest you,
smiling so innocently
In spring, I stay by your side
When summer comes, I watch over you
In the light of dawn, you belong to me
At the edge of the world,
I will still hold you tight
There is a small place
Where they carry big dreams
Every lovely face
Shines brightly in the heart
Even when we collide,
we hold our course
Even when we stumble,
we keep our resolve
My you, walking toward the distance
Please carry our dreams
and let them soar